In this project, you will use regression to predict financial data for Enron employees and associates. Once you know some financial data about an employee, like their salary, what would you predict for the size of their bonus?

Run the starter code found in regression/finance_regression.py. This will draw a scatterplot, with all the data points drawn in. What target are you trying to predict? What is the input feature being used to predict it?

Mentally (or better yet, print out the scatterplot and use paper and pencil) sketch out the regression line that you roughly predict.

In regression, you need training and testing data, just like in classification. This has already been set up in the starter code. Change the value of test_color from "b" to “r” (for “red”), and rerun. Note: For those students converting Python 2 code to Python 3, see below for some important remarks regarding compatibility.

You will be fitting your regression using the blue (training) points only. (You may have noticed that instead of the standard 10%, we’ve put 50% of our data into the test set--that’s because in Part 5, we will switch the training and testing datasets around and splitting the data evenly makes this more straightforward.)

Import Linear Regression from sklearn, and create/fit your regression. Name it reg so that the plotting code will show it overlaid on the scatterplot. Does it fall approximately where you expected it?

Extract the slope (stored in the reg.coef_ attribute) and the intercept. What are the slope and intercept?

Imagine you were a less savvy machine learner, and didn’t know to test on a holdout test set. Instead, you tested on the same data that you used to train, by comparing the regression predictions to the target values (i.e. bonuses) in the training data. What score do you find? You may not have an intuition yet for what a “good” score is; this score isn’t very good (but it could be a lot worse).

Now compute the score for your regression on the test data, like you know you should. What’s that score on the testing data? If you made the mistake of only assessing on the training data, would you overestimate or underestimate the performance of your regression?

There are lots of finance features available, some of which might be more powerful than others in terms of predicting a person’s bonus. For example, suppose you thought about the data a bit and guess that the “long_term_incentive” feature, which is supposed to reward employees for contributing to the long-term health of the company, might be more closely related to a person’s bonus than their salary is.

A way to confirm that you’re right in this hypothesis is to regress the bonus against the long term incentive, and see if the regression score is significantly higher than regressing the bonus against the salary. Perform the regression of bonus against long term incentive--what’s the score on the test data?

If you had to predict someone’s bonus and you could only have one piece of information about them, would you rather know their salary or the long term incentive that they received?

This is a sneak peek of the next lesson, on outlier identification and removal. Go back to a setup where you are using the salary to predict the bonus, and rerun the code to remind yourself of what the data look like. You might notice a few data points that fall outside the main trend, someone who gets a high salary (over a million dollars!) but a relatively small bonus. This is an example of an outlier, and we’ll spend lots of time on them in the next lesson.

A point like this can have a big effect on a regression: if it falls in the training set, it can have a significant effect on the slope/intercept if it falls in the test set, it can make the score much lower than it would otherwise be As things stand right now, this point falls into the test set (and probably hurting the score on our test data as a result). Let’s add a little hack to see what happens if it falls in the training set instead. Add these two lines near the bottom of finance_regression.py, right before plt.xlabel(features_list[1]):

reg.fit(feature_test, target_test)
plt.plot(feature_train, reg.predict(feature_train), color="b")

Now we’ll be drawing two regression lines, one fit on the test data (with outlier) and one fit on the training data (no outlier). Look at the plot now--big difference, huh? That single outlier is driving most of the difference. What’s the slope of the new regression line?

(That’s a big difference, and it’s mostly driven by the outliers. The next lesson will dig into outliers in more detail so you have tools to detect and deal with them.)
